---
layout: post
title: "Nexus: welcome to the age of AI"
tags: ["BookNotes"]
created: February 26, 2025
last_updated: February 26, 2025
---

In the recent days, a lot of AI LLM models release their newest versions almost every day. Grok rolled on its third iteration `Grok-3`, Claude released so-called the strongest physical calculation AI model `sonnet 3.7`,  and DeepSeek has its name remembered for its breakthrough open-source AI model. It seems like numerous technology companies join the competitive races and everyone ends up having a dozen of free or charged LLMs at hand. Has the age of AI arrived? Yes, it is.

In this scenario, I've just finished reading the book **Nexus: A Brief History of Information Networks from the Stone Age to AI** written by Israeli historian Yuval Noah Harari.  This book prompts me to think wider and deeper about the AI.

There are some important and interesting points in this book. After summarizing those points, I'd like to talk about my feelings of the threat and challenges AI brings to us.

## Important points in Nexus

### AI is better than humans to make up myths

As the author mentioned in his early books, human beings are skilled at making up myths and stories, through which hundreds of thousands of people connect with each other and build a huge network. 

The myths are not truth. We know it's truth that the earth rotates around the sun. But money is not truth, for money are based on the trust of people.  Trust? of course can be changed. So we build our world on the framework of myths, such as country, law, and credit.

Now AI models become more and more powerful,  generating texts, images, music and videos people can't identify true or not. AI could also make up myths and stories, connecting with people and gaining trust. Our world is changing fast, as AI outputs more and more myths and stories. If AI told a million bad stories about a guy, everyone would believe it's true.

### AI is also fallible

I hope AI is infallible, but it's not. AI learns from the materials generated by fallible human beings, and fine-tuned by scientists with bias.  I sent a prompt *Write a small story about a faked spaceship* to an AI model for ten times, and each time the AI model told me a story about a man captain.  There are smaller women captains in fact, but AI has took the bias for granted and deepened the bias with powerful ability.

 When it comes to hierarchy, racism or other important points, could AI make the right decisions to be justice or responsible?

## Challenges and hope

The author drafted a macro world for future AI models. However, what I care most is only trivial, jobs. Will the software engineers be redundant as AI models write code concisely and quickly? I've relied heavily on them in daily work. So am I helping AI rob the jobs?



